= enum_field

* http://github.com/paraseba/enum_field

== DESCRIPTION:

Enables Active Record attributes to point to enum like objects, by saving in your database
only an integer ID.


== FEATURES:

* Allows creation of Classes with enum like behaviour.
* Allows any number of members and methods in the enum classes.
* Allows an integer id to be used in your database columns to link to the enum members (user.role_id)
* Enables higher abstraction interaction with +AR+ attributes:
  * <code>user.role = Role.admin</code>
  * <code>if user.role.can_edit?</code>
* Saves in your +AR+ tables, only an integer id pointing to the enumeration member.

== SYNOPSIS:

When in an Active Record class, you have an attribute like role, state or country you have
several options.

* You can create a roles, states or countries table, and dump there all possible values.
* You can use a string to identify, for instance, the role.
* You can use an id to identify the role.

If you are not confortable with any of this options, maybe +enum_field+ is an answer for you.

== BASIC USAGE:

  class Role
    define_enum do |builder|
      builder.member :admin
      builder.member :manager
      builder.member :employee
    end
  end

  class User < ActiveRecord::Base
    # in the database table there is a role_id integer column
    enumerated_attribute :role
  end


  link_to_if(current_user.role == Role.admin, edit_foo_path(@foo))

  user.role = Role.manager
  user.role_id == Role.manager.id  #will be true

  User.first.role.id == User.first.role_id  #will be true

Your enum classes can have all the methods you need:

  class PhoneType
    def initialize(name)
      @name = name
    end
    attr_reader :name

    define_enum do |b|
      b.member :home,       :object => PhoneType.new('home')
      b.member :commercial, :object => PhoneType.new('commercial')
      b.member :mobile,     :object => PhoneType.new('mobile')
    end
  end

  user.phone.type.name

You have some +AR+ like methods in enum classes

  PhoneType.all == [PhoneType.home, PhoneType.commercial, PhoneType.mobile]  # ordered all
  PhoneType.first == PhoneType.home
  PhoneType.last == PhoneType.mobile

  PhoneType.find_by_id(PhoneType.home.id) == PhoneType.home
  PhoneType.find_by_id(123456) == nil
  PhoneType.find(2) == PhoneType.commercial
  PhoneType.find(123456)  # will raise

It also mimics has_many :through behavior, for cases such as:

  class Role
    define_enum do |builder|
      builder.member :admin
      builder.member :manager
      builder.member :employee
    end
  end

  class User
    has_many_enumerated_attributes :roles, :through  => UserRole
  end

  class UserRole < ActiveRecord::Base
    belongs_to :user
    enumerated_attribute :role
  end

  user = User.create
  user.role = [Role.manager, Role.admin]
  user.roles.include?(Role.admin)         #will be true
  user.roles.include?(Role.manager)       #will be true
  user.roles.include?(Role.employee)      #will be false
  user.role_ids.include?(Role.manager.id) #will be true
  user.role_ids = [Role.employee.id]
  user.roles.include?(Role.employee)      #will be true
  user.roles.include?(Role.admin)         #will be false



== REQUIREMENTS:

* activerecord
* hoe
* rubyforge


== INSTALL:

sudo gem install enum_field

== LICENSE:

(The MIT License)

Copyright (c) 2009 Sebastián Bernardo Galkin

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining
a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the
'Software'), to deal in the Software without restriction, including
without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish,
distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to
the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be
included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED 'AS IS', WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT.
IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY
CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE
SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
